In this video we're going to kick off the section by learning how we can enable Timestamps for our Mongoose
models.
So we'll be doing this for both our users and our tasks.
Now if we head over to the database viewer robo 3 T.
We can take a look at our data and we have these same fields for users and tasks we've had for a while.
What we're gonna be doing here is enabling an option that's going to add it to new fields one called
created at and a another called updated app.
Both are going to store timestamps so they're going to store the moment in time when that event occurred.
So for users and tasks we'll know when the user first signed up or when the task is created.
And we'll also know when the user or task was last updated giving us more information that we can use
when building out our apps now enabling it is really easy.
We're going to start by working through the process with the User model together.
Then is your challenge for the video.
You'll do the same thing for the task model to enable Timestamps.
We have to customize these schema we've created.
So we have to customize our call to Mongoose schema right here on line 7.
Now currently we're passing to that function a single argument.
It is the object that starts right here and ends way down below.
After the last field we've set up in order to specify our schema options.
We actually provide a second argument which is also an object on the second argument.
We can go ahead and use some of the options available to us.
And the one we're going to explore for the moment is timestamps.
Now we're going to set time stamps equal to true to enable them by default.
This option is set to false.
Now that we have this in place anytime we create a new user they're going to be created with those two
additional fields allowing us to track when they were created and when they were last updated to get
started.
What we're going to do is wipe our database for the last time in this section we're gonna be working
with a few things that'll be much easier to work with if we have very consistent data and what I mean
by that is if me and you are working with the same data it'll be easier to watch the videos.
So we're going to start from scratch.
Just one last time in this section by deleting that database.
Now with the database gone and our server is still running in Visual Studio code all we have to do is
to run over to post a man and create a new user.
And that is exactly what we're going to do.
I'll head over to the create user request.
I'm going to fire this off and right away we see something a bit different on the user property we have
those two fields showing up.
I have created app right here and I have updated at just below with the timestamp for each.
So this timestamp is something we can use on the server.
It's also something that any client could use when rendering the content to the browser.
So now that we have this enabled for users we're gonna end up doing the exact same thing for tasks.
Let's go ahead and talk about what I'd like you to do as your challenge for the video and the process
is going to be very similar to which what we just did.
The only difference is that there is going to be one additional step since remember.
Currently we are not creating a separate schema for the task.
We're still passing that object in as the second argument to model as opposed to creating the schema
first and providing that.
This is what we did with the User model so we could add on all of those additional features and it's
what you're going to need to do as part of the challenge.
So right here what you're going to do is refactor the task model to add timestamps first up you have
to refactor it to explicitly create a schema and provide that to Mongoose model just like we did with
the User model several sections ago.
Then you're going to enable the timestamp option which we just did for user.
And finally you're going to create some tasks in postmen and make sure that you are seeing the created
at an updated at field for each.
So take some time to knock that out test your work and when you're done come back and click play
out that go.
Let's go ahead and get to it by defining these schema first.
So right here we'll start with step 1 by explicitly creating the schema a new constant to store that
you could have called this whatever you liked.
I'm gonna call it task schema and then we're going to create the new schema just like we did for the
user model.
It is the new operator with Mongoose dot capital S schema.
And what do we provide as that first argument.
We provide the object with our attributes defined.
This is what we're currently passing in as the second argument to model.
I'm going to highlight it.
Cut it out of its current location and paste it right up above inside of those parentheses.
So now we have these schema in place and down below.
We're gonna pass that in as the second argument to Mongoose dot model.
Now the whole reason we're doing this is so we can take advantage of all of the things that we can only
customize when we have an explicitly created schema such as our schema options where we enable the timestamps.
So down below we can do just that right here.
We're going to provide that second argument to these schema function.
It is an object and we're going to set timestamps plural equal to true.
Now with this in place we can test our work by creating some tasks and making sure those timestamps
show up.
What I'm going to do is remove the challenge comments I'm going to save the task a model and we'll simply
create a couple of new tasks for that new user over inside of postmen right here.
What I'm gonna do is use create task to define one find a new job.
I'll send that off and down below.
What do we have.
We have 2 0 1 created and we have our new task with all of the same data we had before with the addition
of the two new timestamps showing up down below.
So now that we have this in place we have just a little more data.
Or each of the documents in our database making it more useful and easier to work with.
This could be used for sorting filtering or anything else your application needs and that's where we're
gonna stop for this video in the next video.
We're going to continue on and learn how we can set up our roots to filter data allowing the user to
hone in on what exactly they want so they don't get unnecessary data back.
I'm excited to get to that.
Let's jump right in it to the next one.